ChatGPT said:
Here are 20 EC2 interview questions with direct developer-focused answers, useful for Cloud Engineer/SRE roles:

✅ 1. What is EC2?
Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a virtual server to run applications on AWS.

✅ 2. What are EC2 instance types?
Instance types define compute, memory, storage, and networking:

General Purpose: t3, m5

Compute Optimized: c5

Memory Optimized: r5

Storage Optimized: i3, d2

Accelerated Computing: p3, g4

✅ 3. How do you connect to an EC2 instance?
Using SSH:

bash
Copy
Edit
ssh -i key.pem ec2-user@<public-ip>
✅ 4. What is an AMI?
Amazon Machine Image — a template with OS + app configs used to launch EC2 instances.

✅ 5. What is a Launch Template?
Reusable configuration for launching EC2s: AMI, instance type, key pair, SG, etc. Used with ASG and Spot Instances.

✅ 6. What is the difference between AMI and Launch Template?
AMI: Just the image (OS + software).

Launch Template: Full launch config, includes AMI.

✅ 7. How do you make an EC2 instance highly available?
Use:

Multi-AZ setup

Load Balancer (ALB)

Auto Scaling Group (ASG)

✅ 8. What is the difference between Spot, On-Demand, and Reserved Instances?
On-Demand: Pay per hour/second.

Reserved: 1- or 3-year commitment, cheaper.

Spot: Up to 90% cheaper, but can be terminated anytime.

✅ 9. What are EC2 Security Groups?
Virtual firewalls. Control inbound/outbound traffic for instances (stateful).

✅ 10. How do you stop unauthorized SSH access to EC2?
Restrict 22 port to your IP.

Use key pairs.

Enable MFA for SSH (advanced).

✅ 11. What happens when you stop and start an EC2 instance?
Instance ID stays the same.

Public IP changes (unless using Elastic IP).

Data in EBS persists.

✅ 12. Can you attach multiple EBS volumes to one EC2?
Yes, multiple EBS volumes can be attached and mounted as different drives.

✅ 13. What is the difference between EBS and Instance Store?
EBS: Persistent, survives stop/start.

Instance Store: Ephemeral, data lost on stop/terminate.

✅ 14. How do you create a backup of EC2?
Create a snapshot of the EBS volume. Can also use AMI creation.

✅ 15. What is user-data in EC2?
Script run at first boot for automation (e.g., install software). Written in bash or cloud-init.

✅ 16. How do you scale EC2 instances automatically?
Use Auto Scaling Groups (ASG) based on metrics (CPU, memory via CloudWatch).

✅ 17. What is Elastic IP in EC2?
Static IP address for EC2. Doesn't change on stop/start.

✅ 18. How do you monitor an EC2 instance?
Use CloudWatch to monitor CPU, memory (via agent), disk, network.

✅ 19. Can we host a website on EC2?
Yes. Install web server (Apache/Nginx), configure ports (80, 443), use Elastic IP or domain.

✅ 20. How do you secure EC2?
Use security groups, NACLs.

Disable root login.

Patch OS regularly.

Use IAM roles (not access keys).

Encrypt EBS volumes.
